
Release 2.5 of Mobius is now available.

There were a few minor bugs fixed, but the big new feature is Loop
Windowing.  If you don't know what this means then you probably won't
be very impressed, but if you're an old EDP user you might find this
exciting.

Basically, loop windowing lets you create loops by sliding a "window"
back and forth over the entire history of the loop.  Imagine that all
of the loop layers are connected together in one seamless piece of
recording tape.  Then being able to instantly jump to any location
within that tape and play a section of any size.  The results can be
completely unpredictable as fragments of different layers are glued
together.  Or with careful use of quantization and the windowing
parameters you can create windows that play varying rhythms at a
consistent tempo.

There are are six functions to control the window, and two more
for use in scripts.

    Window Backward
    Window Forward
    Window Start Backward
    Window Start Forward
    Window End Backward
    Window End Forward

In addition to sliding the window backward and forward you can also
adjust the edges of the window independently to make the window smaller
or larger.  For complete documentation on this new feature, read
the Loop Windowing section in the Mobius Techniques manual.

    http://www.circularlabs.com/doc/v2/techniques.htm#LoopWindowing

The following bugs were fixed:

  Script action buttons always behaving like !momentary scripts

  GlobalReset called from within a script was not canceling other scripts

  Take out the common bindings used for development since they often
  conflict with new user bindings.
  
  Remove some EDPisms that most people don't expect.

    Mute+Multiply = Realign
    Mute+Insert = RestartOnce (aka SamplePlay)
    Reset+Mute = previous preset
    Reset+Insert = next preset

If you're a big fan of the EDPisms they can be reenabled using a special
hidden option, but I would encourage you to explore using scripts instead.

Jeff
