Pitch Latency

Enabling any form of pitch shift or time stretch adds a large amount
of latency, around 5120 frames.  This needs to be added to output
latency when doing latency compensation.  This may also influence the
smallest loop size since I think if the frames is less than IL + OL
bad things happen.

SoundTouch latency is unfortunately variable and may be expensive to
calculate so we can pick a maximum latency and add a layer of
buffering.  Look at the latest release, it apparently lets you query
latency with more accuracy.

When going from no pitch/stretch to any amount of pitch/stretch it
will add a massive amount of latency.  This will cause a play jump and
insert a gap of silence as we wait for the SoundTouch buffer to fill.
When the amount changes I think we also start over to avoid a click
which introduces another gap.  On the first gap we need to continue
playing the old audio until the new becomes available.

Keeping the output stream seamless requires that we add new concepts
to Stream.  Options

   1) Dual play cursors.  The first one jumps ahead by true latency and sends things
      through the plugin.  The second one stays at the current location and sends things
      out until the plugin has something ready, then it is disabled.

   2) Queing jump.  When we need to make the output latency jump we first send
      frames from the current location to the jump point through the plugin, the
      plugin queues these for later play.  Then we start sending frames to the plugin
      normally.  When we ask the plugin for frames it first returns the unmodified 
      queued frames until those are exhasted at which point the ones passing through
      the pitch algorithm should be leaking out the back end.

I like 2 because it pushes the complexity into the PitchPlugin.  Will
need something similar if we change pitches while we're already
buffering.

Once we exit we need to make a big jump backward.  If we're sweeping
may want to stay buffering for awhile to see if we cross zero, if we
stay at zero for a few millis then we can return to normal.


